about-aptible/talent.md, before:

# Talent Philosophy
Aptible's has an ambitious [mission and strategy](/mission-strategy.md) that we cannot achieve without a highly talented and motivated team.

We've always endeavored to attract and retain the best possible team members. We are writing down our philosophies on Talent Density and Compensation to help current and prospective team members understand how we think about our team, and how we compensate it.

## Talent Density
We won't achieve our mission, or really anything of any importance, without a highly talented and motivated team. We seek to attract and retain the best possible team members. We look for team members who embody our [values](values.md), who will [drive](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/drivers-vs-passengers-frank-slootman/) Aptible's success, and will be great colleagues to collaborate with.

[Netflix describes](https://www.amazon.com/No-Rules-Netflix-Culture-Reinvention/dp/1984877860) the concept of creating a team filled with talented people as creating "talent density." Aptible has adopted this language because it provides convenient shorthand for how we seek to build our team. High talent density companies:
* Get more done, faster
* Are more collaborative
* Continuously learn and improve
* Attract more talented team members
* Are just better companies to work for

And, we believe, high talent density companies are more likely to create and deliver more valuable products to a wider customer base than those with average or low talent density.

We have lots of ideas about how to continuously improve our talent density, but with just over a dozen employees and needing to significantly grow our team quickly, the most important thing to focus on is attracting (and retaining) the highest talent individuals.

## Compensation Philosophy
Aptible's compensation philosophy is designed to be simple, transparent, and an effective tool for creating a high talent density team. We update our compensation philosophy as the needs of the business change. Our compensation process is based on industry-standard data sources, and seeks to ensure we are always paying our employees an appropriate market rate at all times.

### Compensation Packages
Compensation at Aptible consists of:
* Base Salary (+ Commission for some roles, but not most roles)
* Employee Equity
* Professional Development Budget
* Hardware, Software, and Office Setup
* Unlimited Vacation Policy
* Paid Parental Leave (14 Weeks for All Parents)
* Fully Remote Team: Work from Anywhere in U.S. Pacific-Eastern Time Zones

### Base Salary
Aptible's goal is that 100% of our employees' total compensation is in line with [X]th percentile for their personal market and Aptible's market.

For most employees, Base Salary at Aptible is equivalent to Total Cash Compensation according to benchmarks. Save for a few select roles, Aptible does not use bonus compensation based on performance, opting instead to reward employees with generous top of market salaries in exchange for the expectation that every employee will make significant contributions to Aptible's success.

### Personal Market
For Aptible, personal market means:
* Job Title
* Level (ex. [Option Impact leveling](https://www.optionimpact.com/partials/userGuide/jobLevelUG.html))
* Founding status (founder / non founder)

When there is no clear comparable job title in the data set (e.g. Developer Relations) or sample sizes are small, we may average together data from more than one job title (Software Engineering and Marketing).

### Our Market
Aptible's market consists of:
* Companies that sell enterprise software
* Companies with similar revenue
* Companies with similar estimated market valuations

We may update the definition of comparable companies as Aptible grows.

### Data Sources
Aptible uses [Option Impact](https://www.optionimpact.com) and [Pave](https://www.pave.com). We may adopt new data sources in the future.

### Compensation Review Process
1. We download applicable salary data from our data sources
2. We collect leveling information from managers (e.g. managers define what level each team members is performing or expected to perform at)
3. We average together total compensation (base + discretionary bonus) from each source, using the filters described above
4. We take the [greater] of the two sources and use that as the target compensation

#### Compensation Review Timing
Each of the following trigger a compensation review:

* Creation of a new role
* Significant market changes (e.g. the great resignation)
* Significant role changes due to outperformance or title promotion
* At least 1-2x per year otherwise
* Employee request

If employees believe the market salary for their role has changed, they should collect their own compensation data (e.g. comparable company job descriptions with comp data, offers, etc.) to share with their manager and request a compensation review. However, since we target [X]th percentile, we generally rely on data sources with larger samples sizes, we can't promise to match every new input. That said, new data points will be helpful in verifying our data sources.

Commit message:

added line from Frank about importance of competitive comp philosophy

about-aptible/talent.md, after:

# Talent Philosophy
Aptible's has an ambitious [mission and strategy](/mission-strategy.md) that we cannot achieve without a highly talented and motivated team.

We've always endeavored to attract and retain the best possible team members. We are writing down our philosophies on Talent Density and Compensation to help current and prospective team members understand how we think about our team, and how we compensate it. 

## Talent Density
We won't achieve our mission, or really anything of any importance, without a highly talented and motivated team. We seek to attract and retain the best possible team members. We look for team members who embody our [values](values.md), who will [drive](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/drivers-vs-passengers-frank-slootman/) Aptible's success, and will be great colleagues to collaborate with.

[Netflix describes](https://www.amazon.com/No-Rules-Netflix-Culture-Reinvention/dp/1984877860) the concept of creating a team filled with talented people as creating "talent density." Aptible has adopted this language because it provides convenient shorthand for how we seek to build our team. High talent density companies:
* Get more done, faster
* Are more collaborative
* Continuously learn and improve
* Attract more talented team members
* Are just better companies to work for

And, we believe, high talent density companies are more likely to create and deliver more valuable products to a wider customer base than those with average or low talent density.

We have lots of ideas about how to continuously improve our talent density, but with just over a dozen employees and needing to significantly grow our team quickly, the most important thing to focus on is attracting (and retaining) the highest talent individuals.

## Compensation Philosophy
We believe that having a transparent and highly competitive compensation philosophy is the only way we'll be able to attract great team members and retain them.

Aptible's compensation philosophy is designed to be simple, transparent, and an effective tool for creating a high talent density team. We update our compensation philosophy as the needs of the business change. Our compensation process is based on industry-standard data sources, and seeks to ensure we are always paying our employees an appropriate market rate at all times.

### Compensation Packages
Compensation at Aptible consists of:
* Base Salary (+ Commission for some roles, but not most roles)
* Employee Equity
* Professional Development Budget
* Hardware, Software, and Office Setup
* Unlimited Vacation Policy
* Paid Parental Leave (14 Weeks for All Parents)
* Fully Remote Team: Work from Anywhere in U.S. Pacific-Eastern Time Zones

### Base Salary
Aptible's goal is that 100% of our employees' total compensation is in line with [X]th percentile for their personal market and Aptible's market.

For most employees, Base Salary at Aptible is equivalent to Total Cash Compensation according to benchmarks. Save for a few select roles, Aptible does not use bonus compensation based on performance, opting instead to reward employees with generous top of market salaries in exchange for the expectation that every employee will make significant contributions to Aptible's success.

### Personal Market
For Aptible, personal market means:
* Job Title
* Level (ex. [Option Impact leveling](https://www.optionimpact.com/partials/userGuide/jobLevelUG.html))
* Founding status (founder / non founder)

When there is no clear comparable job title in the data set (e.g. Developer Relations) or sample sizes are small, we may average together data from more than one job title (for DevRel: Software Engineering and Marketing).

### Our Market
Aptible's market consists of:
* Companies that sell enterprise software
* Companies with similar revenue
* Companies with similar estimated market valuations

We may update the definition of comparable companies as Aptible grows.

### Data Sources
Aptible uses [Option Impact](https://www.optionimpact.com) and [Pave](https://www.pave.com). We may adopt new data sources in the future.

### Compensation Review Process
1. We download applicable salary data from our data sources
2. We collect leveling information from managers (e.g. managers define what level each team members is performing or expected to perform at)
3. We average together total compensation (base + discretionary bonus) from each source, using the filters described above
4. We take the [greater] of the two sources and use that as the target compensation

#### Compensation Review Timing
Each of the following trigger a compensation review:

* Creation of a new role
* Significant market changes (e.g. the great resignation)
* Significant role changes due to outperformance or title promotion
* At least 1-2x per year otherwise
* Employee request

If employees believe the market salary for their role has changed, they should collect their own compensation data (e.g. comparable company job descriptions with comp data, offers, etc.) to share with their manager and request a compensation review. However, since we target [X]th percentile, we generally rely on data sources with larger samples sizes, we can't promise to match every new input. That said, new data points will be helpful in verifying our data sources.
